## Ten Simple Rules for a Bioinformatics Journal Club

[@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004526]

### Highlights
Don’t be a “lonely bioinformatician”[1], create a journal club

We recommend you find a time that is typically free for the majority and suits both students and early career researchers, who may have time commitments during “normal” working hours. For us, that time was 8 A.M.

--> Claramente nao sao brasileiros. 

a self-selection bias that we can live with.

ruled out formal presentations with PowerPoint slides.

for every paper, there will be someone who knows nothing about the topic and others who are near-experts

open membership approach and encourage attendance from different cohorts. Mixing research students, coursework students, and early career researchers

We have discussed overcoming procrastination, writing more effectively, online learning, editing Wikipedia, student groups, Software Carpentry, document preparation systems for sci- ence, and even the PLOS Ten Simple Rules collection itself

Although we didn’t originally envisage journal club as a platform for collaborations, we’ve found that meeting regularly to write amongst a group ofsupportive peers has led to a publica- tion, with a style that suits the informal atmosphere of the club.

Keep the barrier to entry low.

### Comments

o cdb eh um grupo de estudo

# Template

## Ten simple rules to increase computational skills among biologists with Code Clubs
[@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008119]

### Highlights
participants need regular opportunities to engage in repeated deliberate practice that encourage them to practice their retrieval and application of the material

Initially, the Code Club was used to review code from trainee projects. Instead ofa presentation, the presenter would project their code onto a screen and the participants would go through the code, stating the logic behind each line.

someone may have an R script with a repeating chunk ofcode. The chal- lenge for the session would be to convert the code chunk into a function to be called through- out the script to make it “DRY” (i.e., Don’t Repeat Yourself [12]). The presenter leaves the session with several partial or working solutions to their problem, and the importance ofwrit- ing DRY code is reinforced.

We generally find that preparing a Code Club session takes similar effort to preparing a Journal Club presentation
“think-pair-share” approach.

It is critical that the presenter and participants respect each other and that a designated indi- vidual (e.g., the lab director) enforces a code of conduct.

After the Code Club, try to incorporate that material into new code or refactor old code.

Set specific goals.

A typical schedule for Code Club is 10 minutes ofintroduction and instruction, 30 minutes ofpaired program- ming, 5 minutes to get groups to wrap up, and 10 minutes to report back to the group.

Using GitHub repositories for each Code Club can help make information, scripts, and data easily available to participants.

Perhaps a first Code Club could introduce using git and GitHub to engage in collaborative coding.

Central to the Code Club format is the use ofpaired programming.

Regardless ofhow partners are selected, consider asking the pairs to identify a navigator and a driver [16]
### Comments
Table 1. Examples of successful Code Club topics. !! This is RICH.
