# Reunião 24/09/2020

## A Quick Guide to Organizing Computational Biology Projects
[@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000424]

### Highlights
Curriculum fails to address many of the day-to-day organizational challenges

Someone unfamiliar with your project should be able to look at your computer files and understand in detail what you did and why.
Everything you do, you will probably have to do over again.

data directory for storing fixed data sets, a results directory for tracking computational experiments peformed on that data, a doc directory with one subdirectory per manuscript, and directories such as src for source code 

In parallel with this chronological directory structure, I find it useful to maintain a chronologically organized lab notebook.
In practice, I ask members of my research group to put their lab notebooks online, behind password protection if necessary.

driver script (I usually call this runall) that carries out the entire experiment automatically

Avoid editing intermediate files by hand. Doing so means that your script will only be semi-automatic
Use relative pathnames to access other files within the same project

Even in a simple script, you should check for bogus parameters, invalid input, etc.

how much effort to put into software engineering
### Comments

It goes on to a lot of personal notes, which are okay, but far from statndard.
GitHub logs work well. 


# Template

## Ten Simple Rules for Effective Computational Research
[@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003506]

### Highlights
the present guide is aimed specifically at the vast majority of scientific researchers: those without formal training in computer science.
conduct a software literature review to ascertain what software is available.

The program code itself can be made more understandable by using meaningful variable names and formatting the code consistently.
 you should maintain a record of the “big picture” functionality (i.e., interconnectivity of components and input/output formats)
 keep a record of your work

 all scientists could be better educated in design, so any investment will be rewarded

 Simple tests that the software behaviour matches expectations are essential for ensuring robust results.
Get the computer to run tests for you automatically and alert you to problems, using a suitable testing framework.

 we advocate an open approach of sharing source code, data, and results as freely as possible.
 
prioritise in a way that suits you and your projects and career aspirations



### Comments
Gostei mais que o outro. 
Lista de links ao fim é interessante.

## Ten Simple Rules for Taking Advantage of Git and GitHub
[@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004947]

### Highlights
It provides developers and researchers with a dynamic and collaborative environment, often referred to as a social coding platform, that supports peer review, commenting, and discussion [7]
GitHub hooks can be used to automate numerous tasks to help improve the overall quality of your project

GitHub now integrates with archiving services such as Zenodo and Figshare, enabling DOIs to be assigned to code repositories.

### Comments



# Template

## Title
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Comments