## How agile project management can work for your research
[@url:https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-01184-9]

### Highlights

In an agile project-management plan, an early, partial result, which can be improved on at a later stage, matters more than a perfect result reached only at the end of the project.
Academics seem to be late in adopting the agile.
 
Planning and execution of a smaller number of experiments, followed by immediate data processing and interpretation.

Each layer is addressed in a dedicated, limited period of time (for example, 2–12 weeks), called a sprint.

short meeting (around 30 minutes) with the aim of defining the goal of your sprint:

- what was done the previous week to contribute to the goal? 
- What will be done next week to contribute to the goal?
- are there any impediments?

 At the end of the sprint, meet all of the stakeholders to discuss results and whether those are in line with expectations (review). Take some time to go into detail and do some analytical brainstorming together

 
### Comments





## Agile methods in biomedical software development: a multi-site experience report
[@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-7-273]

### Highlights
To date no group has published a study of agile methods in the context of biomedical informatics in a major bioinfor-
matics journal.

The agile movement formally declared its existence in 2000 with the publication of the Agile Manifesto [7].

The agile view is that the best feedback comes from users interacting with working software. To facilitate this sort of feedback, agile methodologies promote early and frequent delivery of well-tested software.

During each of these cycles the software team works through all of the phases of software development – gath- ering requirements, building code that meets those requirements, testing to ensure that requirements are met, and possibly deploying the code into production for customer use.

####  XP
in XP, peer reviews are implemented as pair programming, i.e. continuous peer review

XP is organized around short iterations, typically one or two weeks long. Features in XP are described as user stories. Programmers estimate the effort to complete each story. Each iteration the customer gets an effort budget and selects a list of stories for implementation from the list of possible user stories.

When developing new features, the development team uses "the simplest design that could possibly work" [13]

When adding a new feature that requires extension of the existing design, programmers refactor the code first to improve the design, and then add the new feature.

#### Scrum
Scrum is an agile method that focuses on project management [28]. The key practices focus on management of feature backlogs.
In addition to selecting features for each sprint, the development team organizes several sprints into releases. Project managers use "burn down" charts to track progress within a sprint or a release.

-Continuing

We asked each participant to focus on how the stated values of agile development (collaboration, work- ing software, embracing change, technical excellence and simplicity) contributed to their project experiences. We also asked whether the project used any "non-agile" prac- tices, and whether there were any important issues not covered during the survey interview

Applications:
- custom workflow engine
- community tool to collect, analyze, report, and share genetic sequence data
- freely available, open source cancer pathway database
- tools to integrate and visualize integromic data


All of the projects used Java as the primary language for software development.

One of the major challenges reported by the projects was the need for a close working relationship between at least two different fields: software engineering and biology.

tacit knowledge becomes a challenge when communicating with software developers.

For scientists, software development is an ancillary task in the service of science, rather than a central goal. Software is only valuable if it can enable the otherwise impossible or save valuable time. As a result, some scientists and cli- nicians are wary of spending too much time on software issues, because this diverts energy away from core scien- tific projects and publications.


#### Capturing requirements
We all used the combination of short development iterations and customer feedback to resolve the details of specific features. Another feature all projects had in com- mon was the use of web-enabled software tools, such as XPlanner [12], to manage and track requirements.

#### Automated acceptance testing
For each feature devel- oped, customers wrote machine-executable acceptance tests whose successful execution confirmed programmers had correctly completed their work. The group used the FitNesse open-source testing tool [14]

The process of writing the tests refined and confirmed the users' understanding of their requirements. This exercise helped demonstrate to customers the real complexity of their requirements and the value of their close involvement to getting the behavior right.

#### Iteration planning
All of the groups used an iterative approach to organize software development activities. Iterative approaches break up work into smaller pieces, each of which can be measured individually for progress and feedback.
Iteration planning consisted of the selec- tion of features from the backlog for completion in the next iteration.

Beyond noting what work was still incomplete, five groups also measured velocity, a simple metric for the amount of work completed during an iteration

#### Release planning

One characteristic apparent in our analysis that may be common in biomedical informatics was that our customers generally placed less value on fixed release dates and more value on frequent releases of software.

#### Coding practices
For all of the groups automatedtesting, refactoring and continuous integration were core practices.

#### Pair programming
One of the most controversial practices suggested by Extreme Programming is pair programming [13].


### Comments

Agile development is not business as usual – it represents a real change in how we develop software in this domain.

Historically this has guided practitioners toward throw-away, quick-and-dirty solutions, or in some medical applications, to avoid soft- ware solutions entirely. Agile strikes the right balance by pairing frequent feedback and short iterations with auto- mated testing and refactoring approaches that maintain quality while embracing change.


## Project Management 101: The Complete Guide to Agile, Kanban, Scrum and Beyond
[@url:https://zapier.com/learn/project-management/project-management-systems/]

### Highlights
Muller's project management system was a resounding success. NASA put the first humans on the moon and brought them back to earth safely in less than a decade of Kennedy's announcement. That was only possible by breaking down the enormous project into manageable, repeatable steps, ones that guaranteed success even when working with so many individuals and companies. It was a project management system—and teamwork—that won the space race.

Invented independently by Korol Adamiecki and Henry Gantt in the early 20th century, the Gantt chart lists a project schedule based on start and finish dates. You list how long a task takes, and if any other tasks have to be completed before that task can start—for instance, you can't serve your meal before you've cooked it

True traditional project management is perhaps an old school model, but its strengths have allowed it to keep hold. It requires upper management to clearly define what it is they want, giving the project focus and consistency early on.
TPM's rigidity is also its greatest downfall. It's like an old, dry tree: it's rigid, and doesn't do well with change.


### Comments

## Be an Agile Academic
[@url:https://www.katypeplin.com/blog/2017/10/25/be-an-agile-academic]

### Highlights

### Comments

How does this work as an academic? - Rather than saying "this year I want to write two chapters" or "This term, I want to do all the research for x and y topics", I set discrete, deliverable goals like:

In this month, I'm going to write the conference paper that will eventually become part of x chapter
In these two weeks, I'm going to draft the first section of this larger chapter.

#### Review
It takes some honesty but it's a real shock to have to write down "yesterday, I did not do a single shred of work on [whatever short term goal] because I spent the entire day researching for a prospective syllabus that isn't due for three months."

Writing the blocks down let me see what specifically wasn't working, and then let me take steps to remove the block.

#### Testing
Plan out what work I needed that section to do:
This section needs to historicize how zoo exhibits incorporated natural element
I built myself a failsafe against overwriting, and a "test" to run when doing the each round of editing, not just the first.

# Template

## Title
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Comments





# Template

## Title
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Commentse
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Comments




# Template

## Title
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Comments




# Template

## Title
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Comments