

## Good enough practices in scientific computing
[@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005510]

### Highlights
Ensure that raw data are backed up in more than one location.
Record all the steps used to process data.
Use a unique identifier for every record.
Submit data to a reputable DOI-issuing repository 


Consider changing file permissions to read-only or using spreadsheet protection features
consult with your local Information Technology (IT) group or library. Alternatively, cloud computing resources, like Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
CSV for tabular data
"tidy" data
write scripts for every stage of data processing
Sites such as Figshare, Dryad, and Zenodo allow others to find your work, use it, and cite it


Decompose programs into functions
Give functions and variables meaningful names
Make dependencies and requirements explicit
Do not comment and uncomment sections of code to control a program's behavior
Submit code to a reputable DOI-issuing repository.


Functions should take no more than 5 or 6 input parameters and should not reference outside information.
The key motivation here is to fit the program into the most limited memory of all: ours
adding a file called something like requirements.txt to the root directory of the project


Create an overview of your project.
Make the license explicit.

project's title, a brief description, up-to-date contact information, and an example or 2 of how to run various cleaning or analysis tasks
Have a LICENSE file in the project's home directory that clearly states what license(s) apply to the project's software, data, and manuscripts.


doc directory
data directory
results directory
src directory

For a small project with 1 main output, a single controller script should be placed in the main src directory and distinguished clearly by a name such as "runall"

Use a version control system: GitHub

Write manuscripts using online tools with rich formatting, change tracking, and reference management
Write the manuscript in a plain text format that permits version control.

Instead of an email-based workflow, we recommend mirroring good practices for managing software and data to make writing scalable, collaborative, and reproducible
Good intentions aside, it always comes down to, "just give me a Word document with tracked changes", or similar

The semantic web. Ontologies and other formal definitions of data are useful, but in our experience, even simplified things like Dublin Core are rarely encountered in the wild.
--> Tiago cries in OWL

### Comments




## Software engineering for scientific big data analysis 
[@doi:10.1093/gigascience/giz054]

### Highlights
many of the computational tools released can only be described, politely, as “research-grade.” These tools can place an exorbitant burden on the end users who find themselves in the position of attempting to execute and chain them into complex analysis pipelines.

Spend adequate time designing the scope and expectations of your project.
Clearly define the scope of your work, and anticipate corner cases that you think you might need to account for

 When assessing the quality of an existing tool, you should follow the same guidelines that are laid out here for designing your own software: 
 i) Can you understand what the code does, so that you can verify its logic and assumptions, can fix bugs, and improve the code if required? (
ii) Does the software contain tests? 
(iii) Does it have a high test coverage? 
(iv) Does it use continuous integration? 
(v) What other dependencies does it rely on? 
(vi) Are those dependencies deemed robust, reliable software? 
(vii) Are the licensing and implementation compatible with integration in your workflow? 

Names must be self-explanatory to those who will be interacting with them
Metadata is as important as the primary dataset. 

Installation of the computational tool is likewise important; installation procedures for a tool and its dependencies can become a challenge for users of different backgrounds. Simply put, if a tool cannot be installed, it cannot be used.


### Comments




## Title
[@doi:]

### Highlights

### Comments

